{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Nicolas Bayona\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 > Systems engineering student passionate about technological stuff and the use of technology to improve people\u8217's lives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 2019-2023 (expected):\line {\b BSc, Systems engineering}; Pontifical Xaverian University (Bogota, Colombia)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Final project title: Still not sure :C\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Work Experience:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b Teacher assistant of Introduction to programming at Pontifical Xaverian University}}:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab As a teacher assistant at the university I was in charge of:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Explain relevant programming concepts to students.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Help students understand the logical process behind programming.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Tell students about important lessons I learnt throughout my life at programming.\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Volunteer Work Experience:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i {\b Academic mentor at Pontifical Xaverian University}}:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab As an academic mentor at the university I was in charge of:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Welcoming new coming students to a new stage in their lives.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Helping the new coming students in their adaptation process.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Tell students about my experience as an student so far, my greatest challenges and important lessons I learnt throughout my life.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Act as a leader to new coming students, so that they felt they were accompanied in their adaptation processes.\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Technical Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most of my technical work is in my GitHub profile, you can visit my profile at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/nclsbayona"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
github.com/nclsbayona
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b My Cool Side Projects:}\line Usually I practice my skills via some helpful project that I tend to mantain over time, I think it\u8217's really good to automate repetitive tasks and jobs a bot or some type of automation software can do on its own. Examples of this are most of my GitHub repositories:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https:github.com/nclsbayona/nclsbayona"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
My Profile README
}}}
:}} My GitHub profile\u8217's readme is an example of a programming and automation project I\u8217've realized.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https:github.com/nclsbayona/nclsbayona.github.io"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
My WebPage
}}}
:}} I recently developed my own website which acts as a showcase for my abilities as web developer.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Programming Languages:}\line Throughout my life, I\u8217've worked in many projects and therefore, I\u8217've adquired a lot of experience in various programming languages. Next, I\u8217'll name a few and some relevant stuff I learnt from them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i C++:}}\line The first programming language I learnt was C++, the most valuable thing I think I learnt from my C++ learning was programming logic. I think that C++ is a really great language because it acts as a basis for other languages and many tools that have been working flawlessly since it first appeared almost 40 years ago. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i Python:}}\line After learning C++, I decided to learn Python, because its reputation was great, it simplified the development process as its syntax was similar to natural language and included really powerful mathematical tools that helped to perform tasks that might involve mathematical stuff. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i Java:}}\line After learning Python, I learnt Java since it was a more mature language, Java was highly used in a lot of enterprise-scale applications and many cool frameworks like Spring Framework where developed considering Java as a first-class citizen which gave it an advantage. \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b {\i Other relevant information:}}\line Also, I have basic knowledge of other programming languages like {\i {\b TypeScript}, {\b JavaScript}, {\b C}, {\b Dart}} and {\i {\b Swift}}, as well as markup languages such as {\i {\b YAML}, {\b HTML}, , {\b Markdown}, {\b XML}} and {\i {\b JSON}}, and other tech-related tools like {\i {\b Git}}, {\b Kubernetes - Kubectl}, {\b Docker - Podman}, {\b Github Actions}_ and {\i {\b AWS}}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Aditional information\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Languages:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Spanish (Native speaker)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab English (Fully-conversational)\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Awards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Academic excellence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab August 2020\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Academic excellence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab January 2021\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Academic excellence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab August 2021\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Academic excellence\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab January 2022\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:bayona.n@javeriana.edu.co"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
bayona.n@javeriana.edu.co
}}}
 \u8226? Bogota, Colombia\line Reach me on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://t.me/nclsbayona"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Telegram, my username is nclsbayona
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
}
